Chairman of the National Human Rights Commission (Komnas HAM) Ahmad Taufan Damanik opened his voice about his viral video. In the video, Taufan mentions the former Head of the Propam Police, Inspector General Ferdy Sambo, like a mafia boss. The video was also taken without his permission. "The word mafia isn't right in public, it's an informal chat between friends. Without approval someone will record and post it. That's unethical," said Taufan to reporters, Monday (5/05/2020). 9). However, he also explained the meaning of the statement. According to him, Sambo had the power to control dozens of police officers in the case of Brigadier J's murder. it is like a tumor in the body of a police institution. Therefore, according to him, it must be destroyed. "In another interview, I described this group as a tumor that is eating away at the institutions of the Police and law enforcement. That is why the National Police Chief must dare to take firm action to remove all elements of the tumor," he said. Taufan said Komnas HAM would make recommendations specifically related to that to President Joko Widodo and the DPR. According to him, the Polri institution needs to be reformed. "We will recommend to the President and DPR RI regarding institutional reform," he said. Komnas HAM in its monitoring and investigation report related to the case of Brigadier J's murder revealed that there were a number of obstructions of justice or obstacles to law enforcement found. One of them is the use of positional influence. The forms of the use of positional influence include the Police being ordered to follow the Sambo scenario, making two reports at the South Jakarta Metro Police and the BAP process on the two reports being carried out not according to procedure.
According to him, Sambo has the authority to control dozens of police officers in the case of Brigadier J's murder. The use of positional influence includes being ordered to follow Sambo's scenario, making two reports at the South Jakarta Metro Police. and the BAP process for the two reports was not carried out according to procedures.